
[](doc/Cima_da_Conegliano_God_the_Father.jpg)

# maker

## The basic idea

It is always better to separate the 'what' from the 'how', it is better to put
dependency as a value rather than a dependency as an other function call.

So, instead of 

```clojure
(defn a [,,]
   ,,)

(defn b [,,]
  ,,(a ,,),,)

(defn c [,,]
  ,,(b,,),,)

```
we should try to force something like this
```clojure

(defn a* []
  ,,)

(defn b* [a]
  ,,a ,,)

(defn c* [,,]
  (let [a (a*)
        b (b* a)]
    ,,b,,))
```
In the former `b` depends on function `a` function. If `a` needs a new parameter
then `b` needs too. Let's imagine this is much deeper, any change in the bottom
cause catastrophic escalation. Even worse when you realize that you want to make
the computation in `a`asynchronous. Not so when you defer this dependency up to
higher level, to c* in our case.

We are not programming this way because c* does not scale well in terms of code
complexity, the potentionally big `let` is an anti-pattern. But wait, the big
`let` could be generated by a macro, just by following the name of the
parameters, like in c2*!
```clojure
(defn c2* [,,]
  ,,(make b),,)
```

The transformation from a-b-c to a*-b*-c2* is not sufficient or possible all the
time but maker has some tricks which can increase the number of use cases.

Using this library you will have more independent modules and higher number of
pure functions, less global variables in your system. With some helper functions
you can make your own simple reloaded/component support (for more information
search for 'reloaded' in `core-test`).

## What is the problem again?

[Watch this](https://youtu.be/Z6oVuYmRgkk?t=9m54s) for 3 minutes. We are
speaking about the same issue, it is a rather different solution though.

## It is

  * still experimental! do not be fooled by the major version number
    * pls help to improve, give feedback
  * influenced by
    * dependency injection frameworks
    * goal oriented programming
    * declarative programming
    * build tools
    * data flow programming
    * value-level programming
    * transducers
  * small
    * tough not minimal/optimal yet
  * old ideas implemented on top of a shiny functional language
  * ideal for composing values (and that should not be so rare out there). 

## Features

* dependency tracking by looking for functions based on the names of parameters,
* works across namespaces,
* asynchronous goals, parallel execution,
* implicit dependency list

## Future options
* adoption in ClojureScript
* optional static types or specs
  * another huge win: we need specify only the result, the params are already
  have done.

## Usage, learn
```clj
[maker "2.0.0-SNAPSHOT"] ;;after git clone, lein install
```
To learn [see](test/maker/core_test.clj) and play with the didactic tests.

## Known issues

* make<> probably does not work with AOT compilation. Yet.

## License

Copyright © 2015-2016 Tamás Jung

Distributed under the MIT License.
